hey everyone laszlo Montgomery again
coming to you with another China history
podcast still a free service from the
China history podcast com today we're
going to focus on the 1967 riots in Hong
Kong that year was one for the Hong Kong
history books these days walking around
the streets of Hong Kong or Kowloon it's
hard to imagine a mere 46 years ago
bombs were going off in the streets and
Hong Kong people were dumping their
property and were given up and getting
out you see the Cultural Revolution was
by now in 1967 at a full and rolling
boil all the excitement going on in
China with the Red Guards the rallies
the shouting of slogans and of course
all the screeching about the West and
all those capitalist roaders it didn't
stop at the border the whole thing waft
it into Hong Kong as well and although
the majority of people did not embrace
the whole spirit of the Cultural
Revolution you couldn't help but notice
what was going on the leftist in Hong
Kong were plentiful but by no means a
majority they were pro-communist
pro-china pro-labor and anti-british
they stood for social equality and
concern for the disadvantaged as if a
harbinger of things to come in Macau Red
Guards had stirred up trouble and
rioting broke out in 1966 as soon as the
Cultural Revolution began to heat up
police in Macau actually had to use
their guns to quell the disturbance so
Macau was the first place to see trouble
that came as a result of Mao's big
production if you recall from chp 108
last time riots have broken out as a
result of fare increases for the Star
Ferry that in pre cross harbor tunnel
days shuttled locals and tourists back
and forth between hong kong island and
kowloon that short burst of popular
dissatisfaction fired a warning shot to
the hong kong government that not
everything was copacetic with the
popular mood in the past Epis
odes we saw how the Hong Kong economy
mushroomed starting off first as a
trading entrepot and later is a major
manufacturing powerhouse people back
then had already been saying this for
years but by the 1960s everyone
cognizant of Lord Palmerston zeeeee
words about Hong Kong a century and four
score years before really knew the Veich
ount most def had gotten it wrong in
1960s Hong Kong was truly an amazing
place but underneath that facade of a
spectacular economy was the same old
tired story told all over the world for
centuries wealth was pouring in and
accumulating in Hong Kong but those who
toiled at or near the bottom of society
didn't get to even get a nibble of Hong
Kong's prosperity there were no basic
labor rights to speak of you didn't like
your job there were 100 others were
standing in line to take it supply and
demand was the way things worked so
that's the setup for today's story the
flames from the Cultural Revolution are
making these a little hot in Hong Kong
in the 1966 Star Ferry riots allowed the
government to know they had better do
something because the masses were
appearing dissatisfied with business as
usual so in short things were a little
tense the Starfury riots happened in
april of nineteen sixty six now in the
following year of 1967 when May Day
rolled around the traditional day
honoring the working man something was
about to give maybe it was a combination
of what went down with the april
nineteen sixty-six riots along with the
ruckus being raised by all these
leftists and the streets more and more
noise was being made against the
establishment and all those who owned
and operated these sweatshop factories
all that was needed was a spark to light
that fire and the spark happened may six
nineteen sixty seven five days after
Labor Day a factory in San Paul Gong
which along with Diamond Hill was one of
the big centers for manufacturing in
Kowloon they fired six hundred and fifty
workers why did these guys get
fired this san po kong factory had taken
some rather heavy-handed action to screw
their workers they did so by issuing all
these new rules on April 13th that gave
the workers a nice healthy kick in the
teeth there were ten of these rules and
one of the rules went like this if you
were a worker and the piece of equipment
you were working on broke needed repairs
you didn't get paid you had to take time
off a day a week maybe longer you had to
wait for this machine to be repaired
after all if you weren't productive why
should you get paid so rules were put in
place that were all more or less in this
vein the rules just trampled all over
the workers job security and rights they
symbolized everything that was wrong
with the whole system wages and working
hours of course the main gripes some of
the workers at this factory in Santo
Gong organized and presented their own
set of demands to the factory bosses
they insisted that one those ten new
rules were to be abolished too if the
machine broke and the worker couldn't do
his thing he should get at least a
dollar fifty Hong Kong per hour three
the work should be distributed up fairly
and for those producing lower-priced
parts demanded higher pay and last but
not least five no getting fired without
good reason this factory in question up
in San PO Kong was called the Hong Kong
artificial flower works guess what they
made yes artificial flowers made from
plastic there were over a thousand of
these factories all over Hong Kong and
30,000 workers worked plastic injection
machines all day long pumping out flower
parts this was a massive industry in the
territory in twelve percent of Hong
Kong's exports believe it or not were
these plastic flowers of the richest men
in Asia today mr. Lee caching who we
featured a long time ago in CHP episode
13 he was one of these guys not a worker
but a factory owner
made plastic flowers more about mr. Lee
later so the Hong Kong artificial flower
works they got tough with their workers
who are standing up to them after the
workers presented their demands the
management in so many words told them
all to go bugger off they believed that
this whole disturbance was being caused
by a few troublemakers looking to stir
up trouble so they didn't see any reason
whatsoever to cooperate or consider the
workers five counterproposals so on
April twenty-eighth that they dismissed
92 workers including all the perceived
ringleaders and troublemakers and to
show they meant business the company
told everyone to stop their work and 566
were promptly laid off and this really
raised the temperature in San PO Kong
one official at the time mr. John Cooper
he had said of Sant bogong quote
streaked upon Street of tall dilapidated
buildings vied with each other for the
limited space available hundreds upon
hundreds of hostile citizens lived out
their lives and human rabbit warrens
plenty of workers were available to
start a riot and plenty of workers
organizations existed to support it and
plenty of students would come along to
give it political backing and so on the
morning of May eleventh the whole affair
morphed into something more than just a
labor dispute all the sudden in San PO
Kong these and many other workers began
putting up posters condemning the
British in Hong Kong my little red book
had already found its way into Hong Kong
and these workers waved it in the air
and shouted the same anti-british
anti-imperialist anti-capitalist slogans
as their cousins north of the border a
mob set upon the Hong Kong artificial
flower works and began banging on the
gates and causing an old-fashioned
disturbance a lot of people with no dog
in this fight joined in on the fun and
excitement to let off a little steam
this included all manners of young
troublemakers disaffected youth and
left-leaning students naturally the
police were called in and they promptly
started banging some heads
so this disturbance that began at the
Hong Kong artificial flower works
galvanized popular discontent you have
to remember this was a labor dispute
that received a nice added boost because
of the message that the Cultural
Revolution was blaring out the next day
after the disturbance in sample Gong
drivers for the kowloon motor bus
company joined in on the fray now kmb
which is still around today of course
was founded by one thongsook in he's a
future topic for the China history
podcast he was a rich guy who among
other assets owned kmb he later on
became a major philanthropist and you
could see his name around Hong Kong on
hospitals and other public works his
grandson by the way is none other than
mr. David tung chung yong chun who many
of you will know is the founder of the
brains behind the up-market retailer
Shanghai tongue now owned by richemont
the company behind Mary Kay Cosmetics
these kmb drivers were all chanting
slogans and mouse sayings they plastered
their buses with signs that supported
the workers and chairman mao among the
signs were many anti-british ones as
well so sanpo gong was the center of all
the disturbances this part of hong kong
was up for grabs roadblocks were built
and barricades created to slow the
police down cars and buses were set
alight things weren't looking good for
this very densely populated area of Hong
Kong the fight was shaping up down on
one side were left-wing activists
supported by workers and locals looking
to blow off some steam and on the other
side of course where the Hong Kong
police it was only natural that the
whole thing would spread by mid-may Hong
Kong Island had caught the infection and
now everyone could see something was
going to happen now the British had to
be careful as I mentioned all things
considered they always had to stay and
China's good graces China tolerated the
British down in Hong Kong only because
there was something in it for them by
having this back door to the rest of the
world and to the west sino-british
relations with respect to hong kong
survive the korean war but now with the
Cultural Revolution it was a much more
dangerous and unpredictable situation
the stories about China being out of
control were well known at the top
levels of the Hong Kong government we
all know from the eight-part Cultural
Revolution series that this beast
Chairman Mao created could not be tamed
and when it spilled into Hong Kong the
authorities there had to be careful how
hard they came down on these hotheads
and want to be red guards who were
stirring up trouble in the colony so the
Hong Kong government handled the
situation gingerly and did their best to
keep the situation under control while
at the same time allowing the protesters
to you know do their thing they allowed
a demonstration outside government house
which is right above central the crowd
came in force but was kept under control
they pasted posters placards thoughts of
ball and whatnot all over the gates and
walls to the compound and there were
megaphones and chanting and everyone
just got everything off their chests but
one of the main things they were
protesting was the arrest of the other
leftist protesters there followed
demonstrations right in central
buildings were defaced and it was like a
little bit of the great proletarian
Cultural Revolution madness that was
engulfing China had shown up on Queens
Road central in one incident a BBC TV
crew got all roughed up then the crowd
descended on the Hong Kong Hilton which
is there anymore the leaders of the
demonstration were demanding at the
British and American flags flying in
front of the hilton be taken down they
weren't well by late May the whole
matter of a disgruntled labor force just
took hold strikes broke out and
transport food production retail
textiles and even at some government
departments staff weren't showing up and
we're showing solidarity with all the
striking workers and those who had been
laid off arrested or dismissed
all the excitement going on in Hong Kong
was noticed up in Beijing the radical
elements in charge up there had a real
bone to pick with the British Embassy
about the arrested protesters and the
heavy-handed tactics that they were
hearing about the British are Jade
affairs and Beijing was called to the
mfa the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
was given a major dressing down by a
vice minister there he was properly
presented with a list of demands they
were five and all one except all the
workers demands to free all arrested
people's three and all fascist measures
for apologize to victims and compensate
them five guarantee no further similar
incidents will occur Yeah right then on
May seventeenth a million protestors
marched past the British Embassy many
were holding up posters saying you know
Britt's get the heck out of Hong Kong
and you know things in that vein and you
know these wild and crazy Cultural
Revolution days there was always someone
anxious to fan the flames of outrage
rumors were spread about all these
supposed terrible things happening in
Hong Kong it was further declare that
all of this was of course caused by the
British and the Americans colluding
against China this was not true because
the Americans didn't really get involved
in the whole 1967 riots they kept their
distance the US was by now knee-deep in
Vietnam and had their own problems the
next day and may 18th the British gave
their formal reply to the Chinese
Minister they replied that the Hong Kong
authorities had fulfilled their quote
inescapable duty to maintain law and
order as impartially and fairly as
possible for the benefit of all of Hong
Kong then to add weight to all of this
three officials had been sent from
London to investigate what had gone down
in Hong Kong during the first couple
weeks of may with you know all the
strikes violence disorder etc and they
concluded this is no surprise that the
Hong Kong authorities did the right
thing they did however say there seemed
to be some legitimate gripes about the
whole labor situation
and they promised to look into that the
British in China took a lot of heat
though and well documented incident that
happened in Shanghai British diplomats
house was broken into the poor guy was
pushed around by a bunch of screeching
radicals and roughed up not only was a
picture of her Majesty defaced in his
house they made this guy bow before a
picture of Mao that someone was carrying
and they did this all in front of the
guy's family what a trauma you know
typical run-of-the-mill Cultural
Revolution behavior and was happening
all over China a june third editorial in
the people's daily called for the people
to quote launch a vigorous struggle
against the wicked British imperialists
a few weeks later in the House of Lords
the whole matter of what was happening
in Hong Kong was debated the whole
upshot was that the Hong Kong
authorities must maintain law order and
security but they said maybe it was a
good idea to look into these labor
conditions and see if there is anything
there so now began the face-off between
the leftist radicals and Hong Kong
police the leftist were rather organized
and used every means at their disposal
to do their work they had at least 10
left-leaning newspapers to get their
version of things out they had the NCAA
the new China news agency Xinhua that
had always served as the unofficial
China office in Hong Kong they kept a
steady drumbeat of anti-british
anti-imperialist propaganda going news
reports were constantly being sent to
China that exaggerated the strong-armed
role of the Hong Kong police and
quelling the disturbances at the same
time they worded all their reports
completely in favor of the radicals
another thing about those crazy days and
may june and into july all the buildings
owned by china the bank of china most
notably were completely covered in
posters which said things like stew the
white-skinned pig fry the yellow running
dogs and hang David trench the gun
effigies of governor trench and other
prominent British officials were burned
at these demonstrations this wasn't
shaping up to be like the Star Ferry
riots from a year ago thanks to the
Cultural Revolution and the fact that
there was by now a dearth of responsible
and cool-headed leaders in charge
Beijing no one was stopping the Hong
Kong leftist or telling them to be cool
and not overdo it the leftists were
spoiling for a fight and whatever orders
coming from Beijing to keep things under
control were ignored the British brought
in the aircraft carrier hms bulwark in
order to have a show of force the
government wasn't takin all this lying
down after everyone had had enough of
the loudspeakers blaring all the time
the authorities as part of emergency
measures band loudspeakers and on top of
that they banned any and all provocative
and inflammatory posters and to show
they meant business those who went
against this emergency order faced all
manners of troubles and inconveniences
and anyone trying to test the resolve of
the Hong Kong police learn they weren't
kidding on the morning of July eighth
nineteen sixty-seven the Hong Kong
police had their own little date that
lived in infamy up in shuttlecock on the
border with China there was a daring
daylight raid where leftist fighters
crossed into Hong Kong and attacked a
remote police post guarding the border
chateau was one of those towns that
was half in China and half in Hong Kong
across the border in China the time was
called by its Mandarin a shot Hojo by
the time the skirmish ended five Hong
Kong policemen were killed by gunfire
and 80 others ended up barricading
themselves inside the post and endured
all manners of rocks bottles and bombs
thrown at them until the cavalry arrived
and those who had infiltrated the border
hustled back to China when word got out
in China about the daring raid it was
hailed as a fantastic victory over the
British imperialist running dogs now
came the time for the Hong Kong
Ortiz to remove their boxing gloves and
teach the radicals a thing or two the
British got wind of what was happening
and decided now is as good a time as any
to call in the military all hell was
breaking loose now at the same time as
the incident on the border at Chateau
there was also some excitement
going on at another border town called
man come tow or when Jean duped in
Mandarin today this place is one of the
several border crossings between China
and Hong Kong but back then this
predominantly Hakka village was a
restricted area very credible rumors got
out that the PLA was starting to mass on
the border and that they were going to
invade Hong Kong now in retrospect this
doesn't seem possible but given what was
going on with all the protesting and
violence and now with the murder of five
Hong Kong policemen the idea that the
Red Army was going to invade Hong Kong
and take it over didn't seem so crazy
word spread through the territory the
PLA was invading and what was happening
in China with all the worst excesses of
the Cultural Revolution was coming to
Hong Kong July 9th to 11th there were
more violent clashes in Hong Kong this
time on the island another policeman was
killed bringing the total to six in one
weekend the next night curfew was
imposed six of their own had been killed
the Hong Kong police were now itching
for a fight and we're not going to
exercise the restraint they had done up
till now they went on the offensive at
once they went after known leftist
head-on known centers of communist
activity were raided and troublemakers
were rounded up weapons bombs and all
manners of communist literature and
propaganda confiscated the leftist
naturally didn't crumble they had the
numbers and the home field advantage if
the Hong Kong police were going to play
rough they would play rougher and so
began a bombing campaign that saw
explosions all over the territory the
main targets were police stations and
government buildings by late July 1967
the bombing campaign was
and into other public places like movie
theaters outdoor markets parks vehicles
were set on fire as were buses taxis and
private cars another tactic used to
spread terror was the planting of fake
bombs everywhere no one knew when they
came upon one if it was real or fake
until it was too late the people were
freaking out and widespread panic ensued
no one was quite sure if the British
were going to be able to prevail against
the widespread terror and the threat
that the PLA was about to invade just
made things that much worse and so
thousands began to give up and get out
there was a mass exodus from Hong Kong
of people who knew the end had come Hong
Kong was finished they dumped all their
properties and assets and fled for safer
places Taiwan other areas of Southeast
Asia wherever they could go not everyone
was convinced that the worst-case
scenario was happening one of those was
mr. Lee kashe despite the chaos and
commotion going on he knew this was just
a passing phase and in the end all would
quiet down and return to normal a lot of
people thought this way not everyone was
heading for the exits and so as people
began to dump their properties mr. Lee
took every cent he had and bought up all
this real estate at bargain-basement
prices although Lee caching was already
a successful factory boss and one of the
bigger artificial flower exporters it
was this period in July August September
1967 that really made him this real
estate that he bought up during these
dark days ended up being the foundation
of his fortune that today exceeds 24
billion dollars making him not only the
richest man in Asia but one of the
richest people in the whole world on
July twentieth the government granted
the police more powers and dusted off
the so-called nine emergency measures
they had come up with back in 1949 now a
vice was starting to put the squeeze on
the radical leftist editors publishers
and printers of three leftist papers
spewing out the most
regus propaganda were shut down charged
and locked up for inciting violence
through their false reporting then in
August the heat got turned up a bit as
the leftists pulled out all the stops to
fight back against the authorities an
August fourth the police carried out a
joint RAID with the military a
combination of 1,000 police and soldiers
and three helicopters from the hms
hermes launched an attack against three
leftist strongholds one of which was
booby-trapped and filled with
bomb-making equipment by the end of
august 1967 the popular tide began to
turn irrevocably against the leftist
back when they were rampaging for
workers rights it was okay people stood
behind them but now after all the
violence and in-your-face propaganda and
disturbances the people of Hong Kong
began turning away from them and became
more and more reluctant to sign on an
August twentieth two children were
killed after a ball they discovered and
began playing with exploded in their
faces killing both kids someone had
planted a bomb inside and these two
children became innocent victims of the
violence this didn't go over too well in
the eyes of the Hong Kong populace but
it was four days later that really
caused widespread revulsion against the
methods of these radical leftist on that
day August twenty-fourth 1967 popular
Hong Kong radio commentator mr. Leung
Boone was attacked in his car as he was
leaving his house lumban and his cousin
were ambushed by leftists who had been
masquerading as a maintenance crew they
blocked his street and surrounded his
car dousing it with gasoline and they
set it on fire and burned lung Boone and
his cousin to death Lamborn had been
perhaps the most outspoken critic of the
leftist mocking them and pouring scorn
on them and his radio program now the
leftist had exacta their revenge and
assassinated him and forced his wife and
three young daughters to flee to Taiwan
for safety well this is essentially what
did it as far as any further popular
support for the leftists went carrying
out a hit
broad daylight on such a popular figure
Islam boonen in such a horrific way turn
the tide against the leftist and in
favor of the police and the Hong Kong
government for a while now the leftist
had been sending out threatening letters
to various Chinese business and
community leaders anyone else who dared
to be outspoken like lum boon ended up
on some leftist hit list and were
branded as traitors who had to be rubbed
up now how did the authorities and China
feel about all this right about now
august-september 1967 you had Red Guards
attacking the PLA and those two were
slugging it out big time up in China the
country was just being torn apart and
Joe and I and others had bigger fish to
fry in China trying to keep the ship of
state from sinking than to worry about
Hong Kong spiraling out of control but
Premier Joe surely knew about these
incidents that went down in Hong Kong he
didn't like it but under the
circumstances that was little he could
do to stop it that British warships and
aircraft carriers were heading in that
direction didn't make the premier too
happy right around the time of the Wuhan
incident that we discussed back in CHP
episode 87 Cultural Revolution part 5 on
august twenty second Red Guards set fire
to the British mission in Beijing and
pushed around and physically abused the
staff up there the British and Chinese
by now we're having a classic diplomatic
tit-for-tat brawl an August twenty-ninth
in London there was a violent incident
involving PRC diplomats who attacked
police in the street this resulted in
the PRC canceling all exit permits for
any Britain's wanting to bail out of
China the Red Guards by now we're in a
froth over what was happening it was
getting uglier by the day and taking
sino-british relations to lows not seen
since the Opium Wars September 1967 the
top PRC leaders began to turn away from
the Hong Kong leftist a man they were
making the PRC look bad between the
withdrawal of PRC
and the very effective measures taken by
the Hong Kong authorities to shut down
all these leftist dens and headquarters
these strong-arm tactics were paying off
and both sides just continued to slug
things out but a corner had been turned
on the one hand the government continued
their heavy-handed measures to defeat
the leftists and at the same time they
tried to cut all kinds of deals with
striking workers they did things like
promise them if they came back to work
all would be forgiven and no one would
suffer any retribution this really
divided the workers as some wanted to
keep up the fight and sumit decided
enough was enough now you'd think the
end was at hand between Britain and
China yet despite all this kind of
totally strange behavior coming out of
China and directed at Britain the
British still believed and they were
sending out feelers to this extent that
the PRC should be admitted to the UN
this didn't go unnoticed by Joe and lie
a national day October first 1967 the
traditional day to give the annual
renewal of China's water supply
agreement to Hong Kong the approval came
without any incident Hong Kong didn't
have much of a natural water supply was
completely dependent on China's goodwill
supply water to the territory every
national day was the symbolic renewal
date and although there was some fair
that China would use this nuclear option
to whack Britain nothing of the sort
happened the water kept flowing as 1967
was nearing the end the attitude towards
the leftists in Hong Kong had fallen to
an all-time low up in Beijing Joe knew
by now most of the accounts of
activities down there that he was
reading were fiction and wildly
exaggerated the leftists there weren't
following orders and had proven to be
most unreliable and uncontrollable Joe
had a big enough problem on his hands
with China out of control he didn't need
the additional headache down in Hong
Kong and so the last line of support for
the leftist began to fade the public had
by now grown tired of the madness that
hit Hong Kong in 1967 now with Beijing
turning their back on the Hong Kong
leftist their days were numbered
and pretty soon everyone was simply
going to have to stand down and go back
to whatever it was they were doing
before the fireworks at the Hong Kong
artificial flower works in San bogong by
December premiere Joe and I gave the
formal order to these leftist to stop
what they were doing and with this order
it was over see there was no question
that something had to be done about
labor rights when the leftist referred
to their cause is a national heroic
patriotic reaction of an oppressed
people they weren't far from the mark
anyone can see the state of affairs
wasn't fair but this didn't mean the
masses in Hong Kong wished for Britain
to leave the alternative was not
generally acceptable to everyone most of
the older populace of Hong Kong had all
fled China for one reason or another
chaos war fear of communist oppression
led them to Hong Kong when Hong Kong
people read and heard about the worst
excesses of the Cultural Revolution that
was the I told you so the people felt as
far as the correctness of their decision
to leave China for the milder political
and social climate of Hong Kong there
was some sympathy that people felt for
the leftist due to the Hong Kong police
strong-arm tactics but other than this
there was very little widespread support
you'd think the students would have
hopped on board the leftist train but
even they cool towards them the violence
and tactics of the left simply turn them
off in fact there ended up being quite a
bit of local support from students in
favor of the government's decision and
you know after the incidents in Chateau
for the police as well aside from
all this people had simply had enough of
the disruption the leftist were causing
to the people's daily lives and when the
leftist turned to violence in July and
August this just turned people off it
turned them away from the message the
leftist were trying to get out and in
favor of the government in the police in
1969 Queen Elizabeth later bestowed a
great honor on the police renaming the
police force the Royal Hong Kong police
force the well-known Hong Kong
politician and founder in 1992 of the
pro-beijing
McCrea kalaya the betterment of Hong
Kong song York Singh said many years
later that a lot of these troublemakers
were simple workers who had been
oppressed their entire lives and lived
without hope that they should embrace
the leftist like they did was only
natural so great britain and the
colonial government came out of this
whole mess smelling quite good the
government had a newfound popularity and
legitimacy what had happened in 1967
allowed the people of Hong Kong at least
at the time to know that there was very
little in it for them to throw the
British out of Hong Kong and embrace
China instead all the violence chaos and
disruption in Hong Kong was all the
proof people needed that this kind of
leftist talk was best left at the border
nobody wanted it down in Hong Kong
another thing that came out of this
experience was the way Hong Kong people
now identified themselves not so much
anymore with Britain or with China they
felt a new independent identity that of
Hong Kong people it was the beginning of
a new age and much of the change they
demanded was now set to happen the three
biggest demands for reform centered
around improving labor relations
communication between the government and
the people and expanding education in
the years immediately following the 1967
Hong Kong riots there was quite a bit of
discussion that led to implementation of
many reforms in the 1970s Governor David
trench actually had hoped to become Hong
Kong's champion of reform when he began
serving as governor in 1964 but any
hopes of bringing a new age to Hong Kong
got swept away once the 1967 riots
started and so it fell to governor
trenches successor the 25th governor of
Hong Kong Murray Mackel hose to become
Hong Kong's great champion of reform in
our next episode we will look at the
Makah lowes years he served as Hong
Kong's governor from 1971 to 1982 which
made him Hong Kong's longest-serving
governor in the history of the colony
the Star Ferry Riots of 1965
riots of 1967 where all the Hong Kong
government needed to get the point the
old ways weren't suitable anymore this
was a new age and people demanded
dignity and respect the old ways didn't
fit in this new modern age Hong Kong
society didn't come to a halt during the
riots life was disrupted but it was by
no means anything like what was
happening in China even with so many
thousands deserting the territory and
fleeing to more peaceful lands most felt
likely cashing that this was terrible
but it would pass and pass it did it was
during the worst part of the riots by
the way that mr. Yun Wing Chun known
affectionately as fifth uncle opened up
the Hong Kong landmark amigo restaurant
this Hong Kong institution that I've
eaten at many times opened up in the
middle of the riots and causeway bay
later moving to their present location
in Happy Valley in the end 51 people
died in the riots including the six
police officers 15 of these deaths came
from the bombings of the 800 people who
were injured almost half came from the
bombs that were planted all over the
place by the leftist in the end 5,000
people were arrested and of those five
thousand two thousand were convicted ok
let's put the bookmark in right here and
save the rest for later this is now the
longest running series for the China
history podcast nine episodes and still
going strong I don't know if we'll be
able to finish up in episode 10 but
probably episode 11 we should be able to
make it to 1997 if you've made it this
far I thank you for listening this is
laszlo Montgomery coming to you from
room 1902 of the westin guangzhou i'm
off to ningbo tomorrow for a visit to
the head office this one should be a
barn burner after that I'm going to
Frankfort for my annual trip to the
paper world show there so we're going
into a tunnel now until the 29th of
January once I get back to LA I'll begin
working on chp 110 and with this episode
perhaps we can finish up this history of
hong kong series take care of you want
and there's nothing in this world I wish
for more than to see you next time for
another exciting episode
of the China history podcast